= Using The Krb5 Module =

This module helps administrators get a working KDC in place and clients
configured to use the KDC.

However, given the highly sensitive nature of Kerberos passwords and tokens,
this module DOES NOT store or use any passwords related to the Kerberos KDC.

This means that you must run '/usr/sbin/kdb5_util create -s' on the KDC to set
the principal adminstrator password and initialize the database.

It is also up to you to register your systems/services with the KDC.

If you forget your password, Puppet can't help you.

The following sections give a brief guide on how to get started, for more
information, please see the official Red Hat documentation at
https://access.redhat.com/knowledge/docs/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Managing_Smart_Cards/Configuring_a_Kerberos_5_Server.html

= Create Your Admin Principal =

The following Puppet code snippet will create an admin principal that is
*probably* appropriate for your organization.

This is contained in the 'krb5::stock::default_admin_principal' class for easy
reference or use as you prefer.

krb5_acl{ "${::domain}_admin":
  principal       => "*/admin@${::domain}",
  operation_mask  => '*'
}

= Creating Principals =

Once your systems are properly configured, either via the 'krb5::stock'
classes, or otherwise, you need to start registering principals with your KDC.

== Create Your First Principal ==

Your first principal will be an admin principal and will be allowed to manage
the environment since it is in the 'admin' group. This must be created on the
KDC system.

Run the following command to create your principal:
  /usr/sbin/kadmin.local -r YOUR.DOMAIN -q "addprinc <username>/admin"

You can now do everything remotely using this principal. Load it using
  /usr/bin/kinit <username>/admin.

== Create Your Host Principals ==

Before you can really do anything with your hosts, you need to ensure that the
host itself has a keytab.

SIMP uses the /etc/puppet/keydist directory for each host to securely
distribute keytabs to the clients.

On the KDC , generate a principal for each host in your environment using the
following command:

  /usr/sbin/kadmin.local -r YOUR.DOMAIN -q 'addprinc -randkey host/<fqdn>'

== Create Your Keytabs ==

Then, create a separate keytab file for each of your created hosts using the
following command:

  /usr/sbin/kadmin.local -r YOUR.DOMAIN -q 'ktadd -k <fqdn>.keytab host/<fqdn>'

== Propagate the Keytabs ==

Move all of the resulting keytab files SECURELY to
/etc/puppet/keydist/<fqdn>/keytabs on the Puppet server as appropriate for each
file.

Note: Make sure that all of your keytab directories are readable by the group
puppet and not the entire world!.

Then, update your node declarations to include 'krb5::keytab'.

Once the Puppet Agent runs on the clients, your keytabs will copied to
/etc/krb5_keytabs. The keytab matching your fqdn will be set in place as the
default keytab: /etc/krb5.keytab.

